{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AppleSymbols;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20640\viewh15840\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Adelman - Leonard Adelman (1945) is american computer scientist, one of the creators of RSA algorithm. \
\
AES (Rijndael) - AES standard is superior to the DES Standard, because it has long enough keys to be immune to brute force attack. Critical to the security of one-time pad operations is choosing the key at random, securely exchanging pads, only using the pad one time. Basic cryptographic functions to encrypt plaintext are substitution ad transposition. AES is a strong symmetric block encryption algorithm that became a government standard in 2002, and is used in all modern applications. The Advanced Encryption Standard, also known by its original name Rijndael, is a specification for the encryption of electronic data established by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology in 2001. ECC and AES create the most advanced and efficient cryptographic technique over the cloud storage. We can say that single AES is little bit slower than the hybrid (ECC-AES) method due to its larger key size, while the hybrid method allows reduced key size as well as a faster security mechanism for securing the data. Cipher type is symmetric and security is excellent. AES is very fast. Block size is 128 bits. Average number of bits needed is 256.\
\
application - private key, public key, email secure, file system encryption, hash message authentication, password protection, cloud storage protection, identity encryption, key exchange, XML signatures, ...\
\
ASCII - ASCII or American Standard Code for Information Interchange is a standard framework where English alphabets. Not enough available characters. \
\
Association - In IPSec, a Security association is a relationship between two entities and describes the components for the entities, including the security protocols, algorithms, and keys required for the services requested. Each Security Association is created and provides the attributes that are necessary for the Encapsulating Security Protocol or Authentication Header processes.\
\
Asymmetric cryptography - encryption and decryption key is different, 2 keys are needed ( public and private). Asymmetric encryption methods enables secure key exchange, encryption, and digital signatures. Asymmetric or Public Key encryption uses two keys and can provide several key functions. Asymmetric encryption depends on multiplication and division, and is resource intensive. Asymmetric encryption has many benefits but it is resource intensive. Asymmetric encryption uses two keys, a public and private key and is slower than symmetric ( only 1 private key needed). Asymmetric algorithms are RSA, Diffie Hellman, ECC, El Gamal, DSA, etc. Size of encrypted text is larger than plain text in asymmetric, but in symmetric encrypted text is the same size as plain text. Asymmetric algorithms are used to protect confidentiality (encryption and decryption), integrity ad non repudiation (digital signatures).  Public key is used to encrypt the data, private key is used to decrypt the data.\
\
Authentication - Authentication confirms the identity of a process, system or person. Only asymmetric key can be used, symmetric key cannot protect authentication.\
\
Bcrypt - algorithm uses the Blowfish cipher along with a salt to strengthen cryptographic keys. \
\
BIKE - KEM - BIKE is a code-based key encapsulation mechanism based on QC-MDPC (Quasi-Cyclic Moderate Density Parity-Check) codes submitted to the NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography Standardization Process.\
\
Binary representations - Translate binary to base10: 1101 is 13, in Binary you add the positive values, in this case the positive value under the fourth, third, and first places to achieve a total of 13.\
\
Block ciphers - A block cipher can only encrypt a single data block of data at a time. Block Cipher Converts the plain text into cipher text by taking plain text's block at a time. Stream Cipher Converts the plain text into cipher text by taking 1 byte of plain text at a time. Block cipher uses either 64 bits or more than 64 bits. While stream cipher uses 8 bits. A block cipher is a keyed permutation over a block that is a specific number of bits (a group of order 2^n), which uses symmetric keys. As such ECC cannot be used as a block cipher such as AES\
\
Blockchain - the first application was cryptocurrency, to use bitcoin without use of authority. Blockchain application is used to track supply chain. Blockchain is a shared, immutable ledger that facilitates the process of recording transactions and tracking assets in a business network. \
\
Blowfish - Blowfish is a symmetric-key block cipher, designed in 1993 by Bruce Schneier and included in many cipher suites and encryption products. Blowfish provides a good encryption rate in software, and no effective cryptanalysis of it has been found to date. It is a predecessor of Twofish. Low memory needed. Average number of bits needed is 128.\
\
Boolean logical operators - true or false representation. \
\
Brute force attack - In cryptography, a brute-force attack consists of an attacker submitting many passwords or passphrases with the hope of eventually guessing correctly.\
\
Classic McEliece - public key encryption 2021.\
\
Claws - The claw finding problem is a classical problem in complexity theory, with several applications in cryptography. In short, given two functions f, g, viewed as oracles, the problem is to find x and ysuch as f(x) = g(y). The pair (x, y) is then called a claw. Some problems, especially in cryptography, are best solved when viewed as a claw finding problem, hence any algorithmic improvement to solving the claw finding problem provides a better attack on cryptographic primitives such as hash functions.\
\
CLEFIA - CLEFIA is a proprietary block cipher algorithm, developed by Sony, 128 bits. Developed in 2007. \
\
Clipper chip - n the early 1990s, the National Security Agency attempted to introduce key escrow using failed technology clipper chip. \
\
confidentiality - protects data against unauthorized disclosure.  \
\
cryptographic algorithms - 1. secret key, 2. public key, 3. hash functions. \
\
cryptographic goals - non-repudiation, low latency, low power consumption, high resiliency, ...\
\
cryptographic lifecycle - The cryptographic lifecycle involves algorithm selection, key management, and the management of encrypted data at rest, in transit, and in storage. Algorithm selection involves a number of choices: The type of cryptology appropriate for the purpose (e.g. symmetric, public key, hashing, etc.)\
\
cryptographic metrics - encryptiontime, decription time, memory used, avalanche effect (strength), entropy (randomness), number of bits. \
\
crystals kyber - 2020 algorithm for general encryption. Widely adopted by Amazon, IBM or cloudflare. \
\
crystals dilithium - algorithm for remote digital signatures. Used by IBM since 2019. \
\
Certificate - a certificate is a set of descriptive data that provides proof of identity, and is a way to ensure that you can TRUST the public key that you use when exchanging data.\
\
CFB - In cryptography, a block cipher mode of operation is an algorithm that uses a block cipher to provide information security such as confidentiality or authenticity.\
\
Cipher - the simplest way to take an existing cipher and make it stronger is to increase the length of the encryption key. \
\
Cipher Block Chaining - CBC - it requires padding to be implemented. Cipher block chaining (CBC) uses an initialization vector, which is an encrypted block of random data used as the first 64-bit block to begin the chaining process. The IV is a dummy block that starts the chaining process. A chaining mode defines the way the plain text, the key, and the cipher text generate the stream of cipher text that is transmitted to the recipient.\
\
Cipher feedback - The plain text is combined with a key string.  \
\
Cipher nonce - In cryptography, a nonce is an arbitrary number that can be used just once in a cryptographic communication. It is often a random or pseudo-random number issued in an authentication protocol to ensure that old communications cannot be reused in replay attacks.\
\
Cipher text (C) - ciphertext or cyphertext is the result of encryption performed on plaintext using an algorithm, called a cipher. \
\
cryptography - 4 primary principles of cryptography are: confidentiality, authentication, integrity, and non-repudiation. We want to make sure the data arrives there correctly, without any alterations or intersection from anyone.\
\
cryptography approaches - quantum cryptography, RSA cryptography, AES cryptography, elliptic curve cryptography. \
\
CTR  - Counter Block Mode - is important because encryption and decryption is done in parallel. \
\
DES - encrypting algorithm created by IBM in 1975. There is 16 rounds and block size is 64 bits. Cypher type is a symmetric algorithm Block cipher. It is slow algorithm, not secure enough. Data encryption standard (DES) is using 56 encryption bits key length, the key length was reduced from 128 bits to 56 bits by the NSA. Average number of bits needed is 27.\
\
3DES - uses 3 keys to achieve the greatest level of security. 3DES was invented by IBM in 1978, has 168 Key length. there is a 48 rounds and block size is 64 bits. It is very slow and security is sufficient. Triple DES is one of the strongest symmetric algorithms. Average number of bits needed is 40.\
\
Diffie Hellman - asymmetric, example of an in-band approach to key exchange. When encrypting data using symmetric encryption, both sides must use the same secret key. To securely transmit the shared secret key to both parties we use either Diffie Hellman or asymmetric encryption. Diffie-Hellman is used for key exchange NOT encryption, as it allows two users to share a secret key securely over a public network.\
\
Digital certificates - provide assurance of trust for all participants.  \
\
Digital signature - A Digital signature uses Public Key encryption and verifies data's origin and integrity.\
\
DSA - digital signature algorithm - asymmetric, DSA is a type of public-key encryption algorithm, and it is used to generate an electronic signature. As we have already seen, DSA is one of the many algorithms that are used to create digital signatures for data transmission. The first part of algorithm is the key generation (public key), the second part of algorithm is the signature generation (private key). \
\
DRM - Digital rights management. Paid service, it provides protection. Used e.g. to encrypt downloaded music. Protect own secrets and business information.  \
\
EDIE - enhanced data integrity encryption - algorithm is minimising the level of attacks and leading to enhanced data integrity. Computer simulation results further show that, compared to other traditional data integrity algorithms, EDIE yields an energy consumption of 6%, encounters the lowest level of 0.2% of all initiated man-in-the-middle attacks, and reduces server computing time by 21%. \
\
EIGamal - an asymmetric key encryption algorithm for public-key cryptography which is based on the Diffie\'96Hellman key exchange. It was described by Taher Elgamal in 1985. Algorithm is old and in 2022 very rarely used. \
\
Electronic Code Block - needed to encrypt more than 1 bock. It treats each block separated and provides encryption in parallel. \
\
Elliptic cryptographic schemes - ECDH, ECIES, ECDSA, EDDSA, ECMQV, ECQV, \'85\
\
Elliptic curve - An elliptic curve E over finite field Fq is the set of all points (x, y) lying on the curve y2 = x3 + ax + b, where a ,b 
\f1 \uc0\u8712 
\f0  Fq and 4a3 + 27b2 =\uc0\u824  0, together with a point at infinity (\u8734 ). E forms an abelian group with the identity element \u8734 .\
\
Elliptic curves \'97 Elliptic curves are especially important in number theory, and constitute a major area of current research, they have special names. For example, they were used in Andrew Wiles's proof of Fermat's Last Theorem. They also find applications in elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) and integer factorization. The name of ECC curve is defined in the ECC table. PointQ (EccPoint) is an ECC point representating the public component. d (integer) is a scalar that represents the private component in NIST P curves. It is smaller than the order of the generator point. Seed (bytes) is the private component in EdDSA curves (Ed25519, 32 bytes; Ed448, 57 bytes).\
\
Elliptic schemes alternatives - Hessian curves, Edwards curves, Twisted curves, Twisted Hessian curves, Twisted Edwards curve, Doche Icart Kohel curve, Jacobian curve, Montgomery curves, ...   \
\
Elliptic curve cryptography - approach is most susceptible to a quantum computing attack. Elliptic-curve cryptography (ECC) is an approach to public-key cryptography based on the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields. ECC allows smaller keys compared to non-EC cryptography (based on plain Galois fields) to provide equivalent security. Elliptic curves are applicable for key agreement, digital signatures, pseudo-random generators and other tasks. ECC is frequently discussed in the context of the Rivest\'96Shamir\'96Adelman (RSA) cryptographic algorithm. ECC is more secure than RSA and is in its adaptive phase. Its usage is expected to scale up in the near future. RSA requires much bigger key lengths to implement encryption. ECC requires much shorter key lengths compared to RSA, ECC has the same security level, but is much more efficient.  ECC finds a distinct logarithm within a random elliptic curve, in contrast to RSA, which uses large logarithms as security measures.\
\
Enigma - complex device in WW1 and WW2 to create encrypted messages. \
\
Falcon (FAst Fourier Lattice-based COmpact signatures over NTRU) - algorithm for remote digital signatures published in 2017. There are versions Falcon 512m Falcon 1024, etc. Fourier sampling is very fast, gaussian sampler is very secure, only low RAM demand. Falcon class contains methods for performing secret key operations (and also public key operations) in Falcon: initialize a secret key for n, phi and q. \
Find a preimage t of a point c, hash a message, sign a message, verify the signature of a message.\
\
Feistel ciphers - They are great ways to enhance the combination of permutations and substitutions. The Feistel Cipher, was developed in the 1970s, and adheres to conventional encryption principles. Practically all block ciphers including Data Encryption Standard (DES), mirror the Feistel Cipher.\
\
GnuPG - GNU Privacy Guard is a free-software replacement for Symantec's PGP cryptographic software suite. The software is compliant with RFC 4880, the IETF standards-track specification of OpenPGP.\
\
Hash - a Hash is a one-way function, in that you cannot generate the original message from the output. A Hash takes a variable length input and generates a fixed length output.\
\
Hashing - Encryption is a two-way function where information is scrambled in such a way that it can be unscrambled later. Hashing is a one-way function where data is mapped to a fixed-length value. Hashing is primarily used for authentication. \
\
Homomorphic encryption - Homomorphic encryption is the conversion of data into ciphertext that can be analyzed and worked with as if it were still in its original form. Homomorphic encryption enables complex mathematical operations to be performed on encrypted data without compromising the encryption.\
\
HQC - (Hamming Quasi-Cyclic) is a code-based public key encryption scheme designed to provide security against attacks by both classical and quantum computers. HQC has been submitted to the NIST's Post-Quantum Cryptography Standardisation Project. \
\
IPloads - Creates and manages the onpload database; Creates and stores information for onpload; Lets you create, edit, and group the components of the load.\
\
IPSec - IPSec provides security at the Network Layer and protects a much wider range of applications than TLS. IPSec is framework that provides a set of security processes and cryptographic techniques to secure data as it travels over an IP Network. VPN uses two IPSec protocols to protect data as it flows through the VPN: Authentication Header (AH) and Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP). The ESP protocol provides data confidentiality (encryption) and authentication (data integrity, data origin authentication, and replay protection). ESP can be used with confidentiality only, authentication only, or both confidentiality and authentication. In IPSec, transport mode encrypts only the data portion of each packet, yet leaves the header unencrypted. In IPSec, tunnel mode is generally used between two gateways across the Internet, as it protects the entire original IP packet.\
\
IRM - information rights management. \
\
Kerckhoffs principle - It states that when you provide the code, more people will be able to find bugs and the subsequent solutions. Kerckhoff's principle states that the more code is exposed, the more hackers will try to hack it; also, more people can find solutions. \
\
Key escrow - Key escrow is an arrangement in which the keys needed to decrypt encrypted data are held in escrow so that, under certain circumstances, an authorized third party may gain access to those keys. \
\
Knowedge based attack - knowledge-based attacks  go beyond the simplicity of brute force attacks  and combine other information available to the attacker  with cryptanalytic techniques to break the security  of encrypted data.  The first knowledge-based attack  is the frequency analysis attack.  In this attack, the person trying to break the code  does some statistical analysis of the ciphertext  to try to detect patterns.\
\
Latin 1 - Unicode uses 8-, 16-, or 32-bit characters depending on the specific representation, so Unicode documents often require up to twice as much disk space as ASCII or Latin-1 documents. The first 256 characters of Unicode are identical to Latin-1.\
\
LCA - lightweight cryptographic algorithm -  low energy consumption, simple hardware requirements, and its level of security. A new strong substitution box is suggested considering the algorithm immunity against the various types of attacks such as linear, differential, and side channel cryptanalysis. LCA has a simple bit slice implementation and it relies its design on a new approach of Feistel structure.\
\
LCA-ABE - Lightweight Context-Aware Encryption.\
\
LFSR - Linear Shift Registers - a shift register whose input bit is a linear function of its previous state. The most commonly used linear function of single bits is exclusive-or.\
\
LWE (learning with errors) encryption - using polynomial rings rather than integers. \
\
MAC - a message digest created using a secret symmetric key is known as a Message Authentication Code (MAC),\
\
MIME - if a S/MIME encrypted message is sent to a recipient that doesn't support S/MIME, it gets bounced back to the sender. When this happens, the sending system often falls back to TLS to secure and resend the message. Secure MIME is a widely accepted technique that allows us to encrypt email and provide confidentiality, along with digitally signed emails.\
\
NLCA - new leightweight cryptographic algorithm - New Lightweight Cryptographic Algorithm for Enhancing Data Security that can be used to secure applications on cloud computing. The algorithm is a 16 bytes (128-bit) block cipher and wants 16 bytes (128-bit) key to encrypt the data. It is inspired by festal and substitution permutation architectural methods to improve the complexity of the encryption. The algorithm achieves Shannon's theory of diffusion and confusion by the involvement of logical operations, such as (XOR, XNOR, shifting, swapping). Security is strong.\
\
OFB - Output feedback is different compared to Cipher Feedback CFB because\
\
Padding - you use padding when you have data of different types and sizes. \
\
P - Box - you use S Boxes and P Boxes during the non-linear transformation of a few input bits. \
\
PEM - special format of ECC private key encoded in PEM envelope. Other ECC formats are DER (private and public), OpenSSH (only public), raw (only public), ...\
\
PGP - Pretty Good Privacy - randomly generated key is used to encrypt the contents of a message when using PGP.\
\
PKI - A public key infrastructure is a set of roles, policies, hardware, software and procedures needed to create, manage, distribute, use, store and revoke digital certificates and manage public-key encryption.\
\
post quantum cryptography - quantum-resistant algorithms will lead to a standard and significantly increase the security of digital information.\
\
prime factorisation - the difficulty of solving what mathematical problem provides the security underlying the Diffie-Hellman algorithm.\
\
Quad - symmetric encryption, \
\
quantum cryptography - Quantum cryptography is the science of exploiting quantum mechanical properties to perform cryptographic tasks. The best known example of quantum cryptography is quantum key distribution which offers an information-theoretically secure solution to the key exchange problem.\
\
Rainbow - digital signatures algorithm 2021. Post quantum finalist.\
\
RC4 - symmetric, stream cipher. Designed in year 1987, to public in 1994. The most important thing to keep in mind about the RC4 Cipher is that it is generated in output feedbck mode, making it independent from the plain text. It is not possible to use RC4 securely. \
\
RLWE - ring learning with errors - In post-quantum cryptography, ring learning with errors (RLWE) is a computational problem which serves as the foundation of new cryptographic algorithms, such as NewHope, designed to protect against cryptanalysis by quantum computers and also to provide the basis for homomorphic encryption.\
\
LWR - learning with rounding - \'93derandomization\'94 of LWE: deterministic errors. \
\
RSA - asymmetric, RSA is a public-key cryptosystem that is widely used for secure data transmission. It is also one of the oldest. The acronym "RSA" comes from the surnames of Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman, who publicly described the algorithm in 1977. At the RSA Conference 2005, the National Security Agency (NSA) announced Suite B which exclusively uses ECC for digital signature generation and key exchange. The suite is intended to protect both classified and unclassified national security systems and information. Key length depends on number of bits in the modulus n where n is equal to p*q. RSA is asymmetric, has 1 round, block size is variable, speed is the slowest among Encryption algorithms and it is the least secure. Memory most expensive algorithm. Average number of bits needed is 44.\
\
Saber - public key encryption. SABER is a finalist for Public-Key Encryption/KEMs for Post Quantum Cryptography (PQC). It uses Learning with Rounding (LWR), and which is based on learning with errors (LWE) where random errors are replaced with deterministic rounding. It was created by Banerjee, Peikert and Rosen at EUROCRYPT 2012 and is seen to be Indistinguishability under chosen-plaintext attack (IND-CPA). \
\
Salsa20 - Salsa20 is a symmetric stream cipher, which is generally considered to be well-designed and effective. It was created in 2005 in the USA. \
\
S - Box - In cryptography, an S-box is a basic component of symmetric key algorithms which performs substitution. In block ciphers, they are typically used to obscure the relationship between the key and the ciphertext, thus ensuring Shannon's property of confusion. Mathematically, an S-box is a vectorial Boolean function. \
\
Security payloads - In cybersecurity, a payload is malware that the threat actor intends to deliver to the victim. For example, if a cybercriminal sent out an email with a malicious Macro as the attachment and the victim gets infected with ransomware, then the ransomware is the payload (and not the email or document).\
\
Significand - it is the most significant digits of the number. Floating point numbers are used when you want more specific values with the decimal places afterward.\
\
SIKE - SIKE is one of the new algorithms that NIST recently added to the post-quantum cryptography competition. SIKE is a family of post-quantum key encapsulation mechanisms based on the Supersingular Isogeny Diffie-Hellman (SIDH) key exchange protocol. The algorithms use arithmetic operations on elliptic curves defined over finite fields and compute maps, so-called isogenies, between such curves.\
\
Sphincs - 2022 algorithm for remote digital signatures. \
\
SSL - Secure Sockets Layers - predecessor of TLS. \
\
Steganography - hiding information in another file which is not visible at all, e.g. hiding text in image file.\
\
Stream ciphers - technology is block cipher plus Memory. Stream ciphers are fast, use less code and operate on the stream of data. Take plain text and XOR it with pseudorandom keystream. Stream Ciphers are used rather than Block ciphers when you are creating data a byte at a time. Block Cipher Converts the plain text into cipher text by taking plain text's block at a time. Stream Cipher Converts the plain text into cipher text by taking 1 byte of plain text at a time. 2. Block cipher uses either 64 bits or more than 64 bits. While stream cipher uses 8 bits. Two types of stream ciphers are synchronous stream ciphers and self-synchronizing stream ciphers.\
\
Symmetric encryption algorithms - block types ( DES, AES, ) or stream cipher type (RC4, SEAL). The security of a symmetric encryption system depends upon the strength of the algorithm and the length of the key. \
\
Symmetric cryptography - encryption and decryption key is the same, it is called shared secret key, only 1 key (private) for encryption and decryption, but asymmetric must have 2 keys (public, private). Symmetric is faster because only 1 key is needed. Symmetric algorithms are used to protect confidentiality (encryption and decryption) but cannot be used for integrity ad non repudiation (digital signatures). Key agreement is the problem. Private key is used to encrypt the data and the same private key is used to decrypt the data. \
\
Symmetric keys - equal to number of edges in network between nodes, it is called shared secret key. Symmetric encryption algorithms use a single shared key to perform fast, efficient encryption.\
\
TLS - transport layer security - it is only a protocol to encrypt other encryption algorithms. It can be insecure as well. Transport Layer Security (TLS) uses TCP to provide reliable end-to-end secure service using HTTPS.\
\
Tor network - when you communicate over the Tor network you communicate with directly with entry node. \
\
Transposition ciphers - cryptographic cipher that rearranges the characters in a message. \
\
Trust model - A trust model is a collection of rules that ensure the legitimacy of the digital certificates used by the eDelivery components.\
\
Twofish - in cryptography, Twofish is a symmetric key block cipher with a block size of 128 bits and key sizes up to 256 bits. It was one of the five finalists of the Advanced Encryption Standard contest, but it was not selected for standardization. Twofish is related to the earlier block cipher Blowfish.\
\
Unicode - Unicode is preferable over ASCII because it can encode 1,114,112 different characters and ASCII only 128.\
\
UTF-8 - UTF-8 is a standard for representing Unicode numbers in computer files. Symbols with a Unicode number from 0 to 127 are represented exactly the same as in ASCII, using one 8-bit byte. This includes all Latin alphabet letters without accents.\
\
UTF-16 - UTF-16 is a character encoding capable of encoding all 1,112,064 valid code points of Unicode. The encoding is variable-length, as code points are encoded with one or two 16-bit code units. \
\
WPA2 - Wireless networks send signals using radio waves and can be attacked if not properly secured. The most secure choice when setting up your wireless access point is WPA2. Stream ciphers are used to secure wireless communications.\
\
X.509 - The X.509 standard governs the structure and content of digital certificates.\
\
XChaCha20 - 256-bit stream encryption type. Like AES, it is symmetric and uses a single key to scramble and unscramble data. (Although there's also an asymmetric version of it).\
\
XOR - Exclusive or (XOR, EOR or EXOR) is a logical operator which results true when either of the operands are true (one is true and the other one is false) but both are not true and both are not false. In logical condition making, the simple "or" is a bit ambiguous when both operands are true.}